# (Prosper Loan DataSet Exploration)
## by (Clinton Nwokocha


## Dataset

> The dataset is the Prosper Loan data set generated by the p2p lending industry based in Carlifornia, Prosperloan Marketplace, inc. This data set contains 113,937 loans with 81 variables on each loan, including Borrower APR (which would be our major feature of interest), loan amount, borrower rate, current loan status and many other, [click here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gDyi_L4UvIrLTEC6Wri5nbaMmkGmLQBk-Yx3z0XDEtI/edit#gid=0) to navigate you to the data dictionary for better ubderstanding of the variables.




## Summary of Findings

> The borrower APR and the Borrower Interest rate features showed same pattern on a histogram chart, they both showed a multimodal distribution which indicats the data could be coming from several different sub population.

> Most loans from the dataset were for a duration of 36months, followed by 60months then 12 months.

> The major reasons for taking loans was to pay off debts

> The Loan Amount data is multi modal and widely distributed which backs early notion of its diverse sources.

> Most data points in the data set consisted of active and completed loans.

> The occupation with the most entries in the dataset is the computer programmer.

> Most of the borrowers are employed, with the unemployed constituting a minimum number of the population.

> Borrowers that own homes tend to have low APR

> Higher Income Range attracts  bigger loan amounts


## Key Insights for Presentation

> The borrower APR is highly influence by the income range and having a ready document to proof that.